One of the things we notice in the marshalling example of the
previous module is that the order of the elements in the XML
is not always what we expected.
We saw that the customer element in the XML was before the items element in
the purchaseOrder element even though in the source code of
classPurchaseOrder the items field was before the customer field.
Also, the fields inside the customer element,
the address elements and the items elements,
seem to be in the wrong order.
This happens because if you don't specify the order in which
you want elements to appear in the XML,
the order is undefined and not necessarily the same as the order
in which the fields appear in the source code.
There are two annotations that we can use to specify in which order we want
JAXB to process the fields and properties of a class.
The example to look at for this subject is ps-jaxb-05-anno-order.
Let's open this example in the IDE to see how we can use these annotations.
The first annotation is XmlAccessorOrder.
Just like the XmlAccessorType annotation that we saw earlier,
you can put this annotation either on a class or on a package.
If you put it on a package, it applies to all classes in the package.
Unfortunately,
the XmlAccessorOrder annotation is not very useful because the
amount of control it gives you is very limited.
The only two options that you can choose are to have the elements sorted
alphabetically or to use the default UNDEFINED order.
For example,
I can put an XmlAccessorOrder annotation on class Item with the
option to sort the elements alphabetically.
If I then run the application,
I see that the fields in each items element are indeed in alphabetical order.
The other annotation that we can use is the XmlType annotation.
This annotation can only be used on classes and enums, not on packages.
Using the propOrder attribute of this annotation,
you can specify precisely in what order the elements should appear.
Let's use this, for example,
on the customer class to specify that we first want the name,
then the loyalty, and then the shippingAddress and billingAddress elements.
Run the program, and you'll see the elements in the expected order.
Note that if you use the XmlType annotation with the propOrder attribute,
you are required to specify the names of each of
the mapped fields or properties.
If you forget one, you'll get an error message.
Fortunately,
the error messages that the JAXB reference implementation produces
when you do something wrong are very user friendly.
For example, if I spell the name of a property wrong,
it will tell me exactly what's wrong, and it even tries to guess what I meant.
So if you get an error message, read it carefully, and you'll quickly be able to find out what the problem is.